README.md, before:

# Overview of TaskHero project

TaskHero is a gamified task management application built in Rust. It helps users track and manage tasks with an achievement-based system that rewards productivity. The project is developed by the following group:

1. Deven Allen
2. Mitchell Casleton
3. Jagadish Kumar Hiremath

# Project architecture

This project is based on the eframe template provided by the following github repo: https://github.com/emilk/eframe_template.

# Crate dependencies

This project inherits the same dependencies from the eframe template (egui and eframe).
This includes:
- egui 0.28: A fast and highly customizable GUI framework for Rust.
- eframe 0.28: A wrapper around egui for building native and web apps.
- log 0.4: Provides logging capabilities.
- serde 1: Used for serializing and deserializing data structures (with the derive feature).
- env_logger 0.11.5: Logging for native builds.
- wasm-bindgen-futures 0.4: Required for web builds.
- web-sys 0.3.70: Provides DOM access for web builds.

# Directory structure

In the TaskHero directory, we have several subdirectories. The one where we do the most work in under src. In src/app.rs, we configure the GUI and collect and store data. Here is a broad overview of each of the three files in src:

- main.rs: This file is the entry point for the TaskHero app, built with the eframe framework for creating GUI applications using egui. It uses TemplateApp (defined in app.rs) to handle the actual application logic and state management. This file sets up the basic window configuration but delegates most of the app's functionality to TemplateApp in app.rs.

- lib.rs: This file is the entry point for the library, setting up the project.

- app.rs: This file is where most of the "magic" happens. In other words, this is the main application file where all core 
functionality resides. This is where you will see all of your task data, achievements, challenges, customized features, etc.
It defines the TemplateApp struct to manage tasks, including their state, creation, and completion. It also implements features
from the following module:

- gamification.rs: This file is used for the gamified pieces of our TaskHero application. This includes functions
such as:
- adding, editing, and viewing tasks with their respective fields.
- shows a points system where task completion grants points based on priority level.
- sets a goal and achievement system with customizable goal setting to track progress.
- allows persistence with data, so when you close the window and reopen it, your "progress" is saved.

The 'assets' directory stores various images and icons that are available for us to use.

# Updates for v2

In the second version of our application, we were able to fine tune some of the functionality. 

- We separated our functionality into two main components: app.rs and gamification.rs (explained above). These are the two
main modules/ files we use for implementation. Gamification will be the gamified aspects, whereas app.rs is going to be used
for the rendering and updates to the gui application.

- Added additional functionality with advanced challenges: this gives the users the ability to see "reward points" based on 
daily and weekly tasks they complete. Right now, it is set up to where you earn points if you complete 5, 10, and 15 tasks in a day.
You also get points if you complete 1 task a day for 7 days straight

- Added the functionality to allow for users to see progress for their bronze, silver, and gold achievement levels accordingly.

- All base functionality from v1 is still implemented, with minor tweaks and improvements, such as the customized goal setting.
Now, users only have the option to increase their goals based on the next level up (ex. bronze goal cannot be set over 
9 tasks if the silver goal is 10 tasks itself.)

- We added some self test cases that we thought would be useful for usage in seeing our progress. These tasks cases showcase some of our main features for v1 and v2 for TaskHero. These are not rust provided tests, but rather user guided tests, so they
will help us see what we are doing right and wrong. This is given in the file "TaskHero_TestCases.xlsx".

# Data structures, modules, and functions

The eframe natively stores data for us between sessions using the 'save' method. We had to add the ability to derive both the TemplateApp and Task structs to allow this to happen. Through this, the user's local data is automatically stored when the app is closed and reloaded when the app is oppened.

Our TemplateApp struct stores many different things, the main one being a vector of Tasks. The Task struct has 5 values within it: name (String), description (String), due date (String), priority (PriorityLevel), and completed (bool). PriorityLevel is an enum we defined consisting of low, medium, and high levels to describe the importance of that task. We were also able to implement a match statement for selection on the PriorityLevel for a task from the user entry. 

# Usage Examples and testing locally

To run, clone the repository and go into the TaskHero directory.
Make sure you are using the latest version of stable rust by running `rustup update`.

You can run `cargo run --release` to launch the application.

On Linux you need to first run:

`sudo apt-get install libxcb-render0-dev libxcb-shape0-dev libxcb-xfixes0-dev libxkbcommon-dev libssl-dev`

On Fedora Rawhide you need to run:

`dnf install clang clang-devel clang-tools-extra libxkbcommon-devel pkg-config openssl-devel libxcb-devel gtk3-devel atk fontconfig-devel`

The left section focuses on the management of tasks. Create Tasks in the upper left corner that will be shown beneath. Tasks are editable by clicking on the "View More Info" button and then clicking the "Edit" button. To complete a task, check the box next to it. To clear all tasks, click the "Clear all tasks" button (this action is irreversible).

The middle section shows the challenges that you are close to or have completed.

The right section shows your acheivements and allows you to set goals for yourself.

# eframe template

[![dependency status](https://deps.rs/repo/github/emilk/eframe_template/status.svg)](https://deps.rs/repo/github/emilk/eframe_template)
[![Build Status](https://github.com/emilk/eframe_template/workflows/CI/badge.svg)](https://github.com/emilk/eframe_template/actions?workflow=CI)

## Info about Updating egui

As of 2023, egui is in active development with frequent releases with breaking changes. [eframe_template](https://github.com/emilk/eframe_template/) will be updated in lock-step to always use the latest version of egui.

When updating `egui` and `eframe` it is recommended you do so one version at the time, and read about the changes in [the egui changelog](https://github.com/emilk/egui/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md) and [eframe changelog](https://github.com/emilk/egui/blob/master/crates/eframe/CHANGELOG.md).

Commit message:

working dockerfile documentation (updated README.md)

README.md, after:

# Overview of TaskHero project

TaskHero is a gamified task management application built in Rust. It helps users track and manage tasks with an achievement-based system that rewards productivity. The project is developed by the following group:

1. Deven Allen
2. Mitchell Casleton
3. Jagadish Kumar Hiremath

# Project architecture

This project is based on the eframe template provided by the following github repo: https://github.com/emilk/eframe_template.

# Crate dependencies

This project inherits the same dependencies from the eframe template (egui and eframe).
This includes:
- egui 0.28: A fast and highly customizable GUI framework for Rust.
- eframe 0.28: A wrapper around egui for building native and web apps.
- log 0.4: Provides logging capabilities.
- serde 1: Used for serializing and deserializing data structures (with the derive feature).
- env_logger 0.11.5: Logging for native builds.
- wasm-bindgen-futures 0.4: Required for web builds.
- web-sys 0.3.70: Provides DOM access for web builds.

# Directory structure

In the TaskHero directory, we have several subdirectories. The one where we do the most work in under src. In src/app.rs, we configure the GUI and collect and store data. Here is a broad overview of each of the three files in src:

- main.rs: This file is the entry point for the TaskHero app, built with the eframe framework for creating GUI applications using egui. It uses TemplateApp (defined in app.rs) to handle the actual application logic and state management. This file sets up the basic window configuration but delegates most of the app's functionality to TemplateApp in app.rs.

- lib.rs: This file is the entry point for the library, setting up the project.

- app.rs: This file is where most of the "magic" happens. In other words, this is the main application file where all core 
functionality resides. This is where you will see all of your task data, achievements, challenges, customized features, etc.
It defines the TemplateApp struct to manage tasks, including their state, creation, and completion. It also implements features
from the following module:

- gamification.rs: This file is used for the gamified pieces of our TaskHero application. This includes functions
such as:
- adding, editing, and viewing tasks with their respective fields.
- shows a points system where task completion grants points based on priority level.
- sets a goal and achievement system with customizable goal setting to track progress.
- allows persistence with data, so when you close the window and reopen it, your "progress" is saved.

The 'assets' directory stores various images and icons that are available for us to use.

# Updates for v2

In the second version of our application, we were able to fine tune some of the functionality. 

- We separated our functionality into two main components: app.rs and gamification.rs (explained above). These are the two
main modules/ files we use for implementation. Gamification will be the gamified aspects, whereas app.rs is going to be used
for the rendering and updates to the gui application.

- Added additional functionality with advanced challenges: this gives the users the ability to see "reward points" based on 
daily and weekly tasks they complete. Right now, it is set up to where you earn points if you complete 5, 10, and 15 tasks in a day.
You also get points if you complete 1 task a day for 7 days straight

- Added the functionality to allow for users to see progress for their bronze, silver, and gold achievement levels accordingly.

- All base functionality from v1 is still implemented, with minor tweaks and improvements, such as the customized goal setting.
Now, users only have the option to increase their goals based on the next level up (ex. bronze goal cannot be set over 
9 tasks if the silver goal is 10 tasks itself.)

- We added some self test cases that we thought would be useful for usage in seeing our progress. These tasks cases showcase some of our main features for v1 and v2 for TaskHero. These are not rust provided tests, but rather user guided tests, so they
will help us see what we are doing right and wrong. This is given in the file "TaskHero_TestCases.xlsx".

# Updates for v3

For our v3 release, we finished up the source code for our TaskHero application. This was mostly completed from last version's release, but we made sure everything was working smoothly and customization was available. 

We added a working dockerfile to allow for that usage. Details on running with docker can be found below.

We also made sure that proper project documentation was added and completed for this release. 

# Data structures, modules, and functions

The eframe natively stores data for us between sessions using the 'save' method. We had to add the ability to derive both the TemplateApp and Task structs to allow this to happen. Through this, the user's local data is automatically stored when the app is closed and reloaded when the app is oppened.

Our TemplateApp struct stores many different things, the main one being a vector of Tasks. The Task struct has 5 values within it: name (String), description (String), due date (String), priority (PriorityLevel), and completed (bool). PriorityLevel is an enum we defined consisting of low, medium, and high levels to describe the importance of that task. We were also able to implement a match statement for selection on the PriorityLevel for a task from the user entry. 

# Usage Examples and testing locally

To run, clone the repository and go into the TaskHero directory.
Make sure you are using the latest version of stable rust by running `rustup update`.

You can run `cargo run --release` to launch the application.

On Linux you need to first run:

`sudo apt-get install libxcb-render0-dev libxcb-shape0-dev libxcb-xfixes0-dev libxkbcommon-dev libssl-dev`

On Fedora Rawhide you need to run:

`dnf install clang clang-devel clang-tools-extra libxkbcommon-devel pkg-config openssl-devel libxcb-devel gtk3-devel atk fontconfig-devel`

The left section focuses on the management of tasks. Create Tasks in the upper left corner that will be shown beneath. Tasks are editable by clicking on the "View More Info" button and then clicking the "Edit" button. To complete a task, check the box next to it. To clear all tasks, click the "Clear all tasks" button (this action is irreversible).

The middle section shows the challenges that you are close to or have completed.

The right section shows your achievements and allows you to set goals for yourself.

# eframe template

[![dependency status](https://deps.rs/repo/github/emilk/eframe_template/status.svg)](https://deps.rs/repo/github/emilk/eframe_template)
[![Build Status](https://github.com/emilk/eframe_template/workflows/CI/badge.svg)](https://github.com/emilk/eframe_template/actions?workflow=CI)

## Info about Updating egui

As of 2023, egui is in active development with frequent releases with breaking changes. [eframe_template](https://github.com/emilk/eframe_template/) will be updated in lock-step to always use the latest version of egui.

When updating `egui` and `eframe` it is recommended you do so one version at the time, and read about the changes in [the egui changelog](https://github.com/emilk/egui/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md) and [eframe changelog](https://github.com/emilk/egui/blob/master/crates/eframe/CHANGELOG.md).
